---
inFeed: true
hasPage: true
inNav: false
inLanguage: null
starred: false
keywords: []
description: Accountant by trade. Entrepreneur by compulsion.
datePublished: '2015-11-30T22:41:36.965Z'
dateModified: '2015-11-30T22:41:25.695Z'
title: About Me
author: []
authors: []
publisher:
  name: null
  domain: null
  url: null
  favicon: null
sourcePath: _posts/2015-11-30-about-me.md
published: true
url: about-me/index.html
_type: Article

---
A high school drop out; I now collect qualifications like Pokemon

* Diploma of Business
* Diploma of Management
* Diploma of Project Management
* Bachelor of Commerce (Accounting)
* Graduate Diploma of Chartered Accounting
* Master of Business Administration

I actually enjoyed university so much, I decided to teach there after my Graduate Diploma. I spent three years teaching different undergraduate accounting subjects. I got pretty tired of campus bureaucracy so I don't work at the university, but I still love teaching.

I have been interested in the boardroom environment since I was 19\. My first appointment was to The South Australian Council of Social Services: Youth Business Roundtable. Subsequently, I moved into an executive treasury position with SAUCNA Inc, where I held office for four years. This was enough to get me admitted as one of the youngest members of the Australian Institute of Company Directors. In 2013 I cofounded Startup Adelaide Inc, the peak body for high growth entrepreneurs in South Australia. I ended up retiring in June 2015, and I'm thrilled that the organization is continuing its great work.

These days, I'm the founder of Accodex, a high tech professional services firm. I have been there since 2011 back when it was called Cirillo Hooper & Company. Prior to that I had spent some time as a finance analyst in a publicly listed company in the engineering space. I served four years in public practice as an accountant.

If you want more info, you can find me on LinkedIn.